>> Mike North: The next thing we're going
to do is add some state to our login form
component, right, some state that
this component holds and manages.
And what we're gonna do
with this is rather than,
I'm just gonna up
the components JavaScript file,
login form JS,
rather than when this submit event fires,
doing some DOM querying and
plucking a value out of select.
We wanna maintain a value
that's always up to date,
that lets us get a hold of
the currently selected user's ID.
Right, so
if I were to go into the login screen,
>> Mike North: As I change from user to
user, we wanna have some component state
that is kept up-to-date, UserId1, UserId2.
And based on that, we wanna disable or
enable this Sign In button.
You shouldn't be able to log in if
you have not yet selected a user, so
let's get started with that.
I'm in the login form component and
the first thing I wanna do is
create a new property that will serve to
hold this currently selected user ID.
And we'll do that the following way,
user ID, and we'll initialize it to null.
By default you'd like load this component
up, no user should be selected.
Makes sense, that is what we
would want in this situation.
So what we can then do is go
to this component's template,
and the way in HTML we indicate
the selected option in this select tag,
is with the selected attribute.
Now we've got Testy Testerson, so
we just need selected to show up on
whoever's option matches user ID and
here's how we do that.
So these two are gonna
actually treat the same.
So we're gonna say selected is true when
one equals this dot user ID, right?
This thing that we have up here,
this is gonna be null at the beginning and
then one and then two, right?
So here's how we would do that.
We would use a helper
called EQ which is equals.
>> Mike North: And then we'll take their
respective values, and put them here.
Now, we should be able to at this point,
I'm gonna leave this on the screen for
you folks.
That's what we just did right there.
I'm just gonna demonstrate that this works
by initializing this to one, all right?
All right, so no change but
that's what it was defaulting to before.
If we initialized this to two,
sample mcdata on the right in our HTML.
So we can see that now we can control
the initial selection state with user ID.
We need this third one up here
which is gonna look like this.
Selected = not this.userid,
it's like a falsy check, right?
If use ID is truthy,
>> Mike North: Then we certainly
shouldn't have that,
this first item selected, right?
This select a user should be what
we see if user ID is null or
undefined, or something.
So that is what this means here.
It's the equivalent ofexclamation
mark this dot user ID.
And if we initialize this to null,
ooh interesting.
What is going on here?
Maybe empty string?
No, it's disabled, there we go,
that's probably it.
Yup, there we go.
So it had a disabled attribute,
little snag there.
>> Mike North: And now we can see
depending on whether we initialize to
null, or to one, or to two,
that this user ID property,
it is used in the initial
rendering of this component in
order to properly set
our initial state up.
That's one thing we need here.